OSDOCS-16949#CQA work Stor5 - CSI IBM VPC Block Driver (#114607)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-csi-ibm-vpc-block-overview.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-ibm-cloud-vpc-block.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="persistent-storage-csi-ibm-vpc-block-overview_{context}"]
= Overview

[role="_abstract"]

> {product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for {ibm-name} Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Block Storage.

Reviewer: Please refer to [Short descriptions for OCP docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xRc_licMTbLrLG9vmJ4bP9aPk6mzwwly5lGlkRz9d9s/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.35i82kfdktwb) for this.

> Familiarity with persistent storage and configuring CSI volumes is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver. For more information, see _Understanding persistent storage_ and _Configuring CSI volumes_ under _Additional resources_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Familiarity with persistent storage and configuring CSI volumes is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver. For more information, see _Understanding persistent storage_ and _Configuring CSI volumes_.
```

To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to {ibm-cloud-name} VPC Block storage assets, {product-title} installs the {ibm-cloud-name} VPC Block CSI Driver Operator and the {ibm-cloud-name} VPC Block CSI driver by default in the `openshift-cluster-csi-drivers` namespace.

> * The _{ibm-cloud-name} VPC Block CSI Driver Operator_ provides three storage classes named `ibmc-vpc-block-10iops-tier` (default), `ibmc-vpc-block-5iops-tier`, and `ibmc-vpc-block-custom` for different tiers that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). The {ibm-cloud-name} VPC Block CSI Driver Operator supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on-demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage. You can disable this default storage class if desired (see _Managing the default storage class_ under _Additional resources_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The _{ibm-cloud-name} VPC Block CSI Driver Operator_ provides three storage classes named `ibmc-vpc-block-10iops-tier` (default), `ibmc-vpc-block-5iops-tier`, and `ibmc-vpc-block-custom` for different tiers that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). The {ibm-cloud-name} VPC Block CSI Driver Operator supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on-demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage. You can disable this default storage class if necessary (see _Managing the default storage class_).
```
